(Michael  K. Young) We are committed
to the notion that everyone
should have an opportunity
to participate in higher education
whether it be from the learning perspective
or the research perspective
or an opportunity to work here
at this institution.
We benefit from that because we get
to enjoy the talents and the skills
of those people who come in
and also their perspective
which in many cases will be different
from the perspective of others on campus.
So accessibility becomes
a very important value at the university.
(Tracy Mitrano) We're a leading university globally.
We want the best talent in the world
for our students, our staff, and our faculty.
And we want to be sure
if that talent has a disability
that they know that we are
a welcoming community.
(Pablo Molina) We're competing with other
prestigious and highly accomplished institutions.
We want to make sure that we
can target the right candidates
to join our community
regardless of their disability status.
(Pete Siegel) We want to do everything we can
to ensure that they have the same access
to smart faculty, to fellow students,
and to the resources at UC Davis.
(Edward Ray) In fact, we genuinely believe
that excellence is achieved through diversity
and that a commitment to equity and inclusion
really enriches each of our lives.
(Linda Cahill) It would be inconceivable
not to have a social conscience at least,
and be completely committed
to making our resources at Barry University
accessible to all students.
(Edward Ray) We believe that the use of technology
can be very powerful.
It connects people to each other,
but it also enhances their learning capabilities;
it increases what they can do
through their research and creative work;
it really makes it possible for them
to have a more powerful impact
in the world and that's basically
what we're all about.
And we want that to be true
for every member of our community,
regardless of limitations, of physical,
spatial, time or other dimension.
(Hernan Londoño) As an IT professional...
sometimes some of us concentrate
in the technical side of the house only
and we forget that finally
the technology is to serve the people.
(Michael K. Young) What the university offers
and makes available
has to be offered to everybody.
We can't afford to waste the talents
or the brilliance or the minds of anybody
and making things accessible
allows everybody to engage in the university.
Equal opportunity is
a part of our value system,
but it's also required by law.
(Pete Siegel) Compliance is extremely important.
Compliance is the law.
But that isn't the motivator
for most of us at universities.
Our motivation has always been to provide
easily accessible tools,
excellent experiences for our students,
and really to give them the sense
that this is a place they want to be,
a place they want to learn,
a place where they can thrive.
(Michael K. Young) Universal design
is a very powerful concept
because what it means is we look at the issue
of accessibility at the outset
rather than buying something or
engaging something or developing something
that we have to retrofit
which not only makes it
cheaper and more efficient,
it likely makes it much better
in terms of both the quality of the product
and the accessibility to those...
all the people that we want to be able to use it.
(Tracy Mitrano) I think the other direction
that colleges and universities
could and should take
is to think about accommodation as really
the beginning of the conversation about disability.
It was the appropriate measure that was taken
in the Americans with Disabilities Act
that was passed in 1990
and that's well over a generation ago.
I think now we really have to think less
about how we're going to measure
specifically this accommodation
or that accommodation
and recognize that we can
make accessibility open and available
so that individual staff, faculty or students
do not have to go to get an accommodation.
It will be automatically available
in the webpage that they visit,
in the device that they use.
(Brady Deaton) We envision a campus
that has a concept of universal design
in all aspects of information technology,
that a student is not impeded in any way,
but in fact, that technology is utilized
not only directly by those who benefit
because of certain challenges they may have,
but also is illustrative
to the broader student body
and to the faculty and to alums
about what an inclusive learning environment is.
(Pete Siegel) We have some things we have to learn
in order to move into accessibility space,
but the basic goals and the basic values
are things we already know and love.
Then we bring in things like universal design,
the notion that if we design things well
right from the start,
they actually aren't more expensive.
This is something that we can fit into
even our very, very tight budgets.
(Eileen McDonough) We make a great effort
in our graduate and our undergraduate counsel
to make sure that faculty and deans
are aware that in program design,
in offering a new major,
that they take into account
that they might have to have
specialized software available
and they have to build that into
their program development.
And then to certainly just be aware
of all the different ways that students can learn,
to help faculty and deans understand
the concept of universal design.
(Gerry Hanley) The first step really
needs to be an assessment of where we are
so we can then inform
our planning process,
develop plans,
implement a project,
(Pablo Molina) Key to our approach to making
sure that our campus and our technology is
to making sure that our campus and our technology
is accessible to people with disabilities
is to ensure we do this by design.
This is not an afterthought that we do
after we have implemented a new classroom.
Instead, this is something that we do
from the initial conception of a new project or idea.
The same way we do this for privacy and security,
we do this for accessibility.
(Bruce Maas) It is less costly, in the long run
to be thinking through the issues
of accessibility comprehensively.
Therefore, having a plan for accessibility
ensures that from the beginning
we think through our issues with regard
to the delivery of our services.
Doing so in a strategic way means that we
can hold down costs over the long haul
and actually deliver better services in the bargain.
(Brady Deaton) It is very important that
a university follows a policy and a process
that is a can-do kind of process.
It assumes that we are going to undertake
the investments that we need,
we're going to demonstrate the value that we need,
that not only address the needs of students
who may be challenged with vision or hearing
or other disabilities,
but also draw on the technology
that is not only exciting for those people
who are developing the technology,
it's intellectually exciting.
It provides new jobs for that matter
and it stimulates learning
in so many parts of the university.
So that attitude of the university administration,
as well as faculty and staff and students,
becomes very, very important
because everyone gains from this.
It's a win-win situation.
(Tracy Mitrano) A policy really is
an important way to go
because it will focus
everyone's attention.
It's also probably the way
that you have to go now that
there are legal pressures
on higher education in this area.
The second thing I would say about policy
is there are really two types in general.
One is a policy that you have
because you have a law
for example the Family Education
Rights Privacy Act Policy
so you want to be clear and sure
that you're going to have
compliance on your campus.
There's another kind of policy that
I would call aspirational policy
and maybe accessibility fits
a little bit in both
but you most certainly can err on
the aspirational side.
An aspirational policy is something
you establish for your institution
as a path moving towards something,
moving forward.
It does not have to have
one hundred percent compliance
because it's really a direction that you're
setting strategically for your institution.
(Gerry Hanley) I'd say another
critical aspect around our strategy
is a shared governance strategy.
Because education is a
shared responsibility
across faculty, staff,
students, vendors,
all of us working together
have to share in that responsibility.
Now, a shared governance process means
if you are responsible in delivering the service,
then you have an opportunity
to share in governing
how we're going to manage
the implementation of these services.
(Brady Deaton) The administrators
of the university must reflect the values
that demonstrate the importance of this
to the learning environment
and it has to be built in then
to every aspect of what we do.
(Michael K. Young) Right now we have a number
of projects and initiatives underway at the UW
in which we're testing new technologies.
Accessibility is an important consideration
in these evaluations.
Many of the vendors we work with have completed
Voluntary Product Accessibility Templates or VPATs
which offer a checklist of accessibility criteria
and vendors' self-assessment as to
how well they meet those criteria.
It's a good starting point,
but we go beyond that
to ask a vendor specific questions
and to test their products
with respect to accessibility.
(Gerry Hanley) We begin with our vendors saying
a) this is not only important,
that this is required
for working with the CSU.
Every student who comes into our institution
we have to provide equally effective
access to those services
and you are a partner
in delivering those services to us.
So we will tell you what we need and then
we will help you inform your staff, educate your staff,
provide them some consultation and guidance
in partnership with us,
so you can deliver
the successful service for us.
(Pat Burns) So we work with our vendors
to try to put pressure on them
to make things accessible.
We actually have a purchasing process
where we work through
and ask the issues about accessibility
for software and hardware
that we buy as well.
(Bruce Maas) Individual efforts really
need to be able to scale well.
If we go about things in an ad hoc approach,
one by one,
we're not likely to get the same results
as if we work together as a community
in higher education
to work with vendors
to improve accessibility for everyone
with regard to the products that are offered.
That's a much more pragmatic approach
rather than institution by institution.
(Gerry Hanley) Making accessibility a priority
in their development roadmap
is going to be driven by the market demand.
And if an institution never says a word,
the vendor isn't going to do anything about it.
So if we begin to communicate
our demands collectively
then the vendor will recognize
the market value of accessibility.
(Joel Hartman) As we acquire IT resources,
we have to embed accessibility
in our contracts.
As we develop resources,
we have to employ universal design
in our thinking about
how to make these resources available
and we have to continue to monitor students
to see if we're really delivering to them
we're really delivering to them the resources
in a form that they can actually use.
(Michael K. Young) Accessibility requires effort
on the part of everyone
in the higher education community...
faculty, staff, technology vendors.
If we all do our part,
our institutions can provide everyone
with an equal opportunity to participate.
And we all benefit from the
perspectives of a diverse group.
(Hernan Londoño) Having that peace of mind
that we are doing all we can
to provide an accessible campus is -
gives us a lot of pride
and we feel very happy about what,
what we do.
(Linda Cahill) Why wouldn't we make our campus
accessible to students with disabilities
and why wouldn't we do
everything we could
to see the technology
is accessible to our students?
(Tracy Mitrano) The spirit
of what has made higher education
the jewel in the crown
of American society
is part and parcel of
the message of accessibility.
(Edward Ray) Every way in which
we touch the lives of others,
whether it's in the classroom,
the laboratory,
through live performances,
through events on campus,
we want everyone who comes here
and creates those experiences
to be as fully engaged and as fully benefited
by the activity as possible.
And that simply can't be done if people have
artificial challenges or barriers to try to overcome.
I would say to those out there
who are just getting started
or maybe struggling to figure out
how to use technology to advance
accessibility on their campuses
that there's no such thing
as a bad time to start.